Hello and welcome back to another video - we actually
have a couple of great videos coming up about the
history of the web and
you might be asking again,
"Come on, let's get to coding",
but this is really important because
we need to understand what problems we had
in the past and how we found solutions to those
problems and where we are at now. We need to understand
what this whole thing of being a web developer means
and what problems we're solving and what we did
in the past and what we do today.
So today we're going to talk about Tim Berners-Lee,
the person who invented the World Wide Web in 1989
and I have a picture of him right here and we're
going to talk about him because he's the first web
developer.
And in order to explain that concept we need
to make a distinction between the Internet
and the World Wide Web.
I have this website that I'll
share in the links below.
It's really really good if you kind
of want to get a history lesson.
But essentially the Internet started off with the
Arpanet in 1969, basically a military project
and was more of a test.
It connected a few universities such as
Utah, UCLA and throughout the 70s the 80s.
It kept growing but there was one problem that they
had and that was essentially for the academics.
They needed a way to share documents and up until
the World Wide Web existed the Internet was there
but it was really really hard for computers to
communicate with each other to share academic papers
between each other.
Most of the time each computer
had their own way of doing things.
Or you can think of this as languages so it's kind
of like communicating with people from different
countries and a language
that you don't know.
Yeah sure you can make it work
but it's very very difficult.
So that was the problem.
And Tim Berners-Lee what he did and he was working
at CERN at the time he actually created the World
Wide Web and what the worldwide web is it's the
'www' that we see whenever we type in Google.com
over here.
Is essentially a common language
that computers can speak.
With the worldwide web saying hey from now on
everybody if we want to communicate together if we
want to share images or if you want to share files
let's just have this agreed upon language agreed
upon protocol in order to
share these documents together.
So that's what it is
those servers the HTML, CSS, Javascript, the browsers
all work on top of the World Wide Web so you can
think of it as the Internet as your phone and the
World Wide Web is Instagram that runs on your phone.
So it's essentially a
decentralized application.
Now, how is Tim Berners-Lee
the first web developer?
He actually created the first browser and the
first server and later on we're actually going to
talk about what he did with
the files over here as well.
But he created the very very first server and
web browser but also the first web site.
And they actually still have a copy of it.
This is the very first web
site ever and it's from 1991.
And this is what it looked like, and he created this
ability for people to communicate and link to other
documents, so that we have this growing knowledge
base of the world. In the next lesson we're going to
be talking about the
history of these files,
What they mean, what problem they solved, and how
they came to be. I'll see you in the next one.
Bye-bye.